Complete sequence of steps in between a session--> continuous coneection btw host(client) and server from starting
to using to ending a connection.

1. Initialisation
2. Operation
3. Shut down

A) Initialisation phase:
Must be first interaction between client and server.
establish protocol version compatibility.
Exchange and negotiate compatibility.

Initialisation step1:

Client send initialise req to server.
{
    method: initialise
    params: []
    id: 1
    ...
}

step2:
Server send initialise res to client.

Step3:
initialization notification by client to server.---> initialized notification.

Now, the client and server are connected.

Important Note:

The client should not send request other than pings before the server has reponded.
Similary, server should not send request other than pings and logging before the client has sent initialization notification.

B)#Version Negotiation:

This situation is for the mismatching of the protocol version. Basically there are supported protocol versions in the config of client and if matching then connection is established.
If the protocol version is not compatible then error msg is sent and connection cannot be established.

C)#Capability Negotiation:

Client and server share the capabilities feature of each other.
Client:
roots--> the info about the directory at the system
sampling-> Server can access the AI capabilities of the client.
elicitation-> any missing info asked by server to client . eg missing API key to access github by server.

Server:
tools
resources
prompts
logging

*Sub capabilities:
listchanged-> list of tools/resources/prompts that have been changed.
subscribe-> subscribe to the listchanged.

D)#Operation phase:

Here acc to negotiated capabilities, the client and server can exchange requests and responses.
Client:
----> Capability Discovery---> call tools/list.----> automarically done.
----> propmts/list
----> resources/list

Auto triggered just after initialization notification.

E) #Tool calling:

Client can call the tools acc to the negotiated capabilities by listing down the exact tool name with parameters etc.
and server respond accordingly.

F) Shutdown Phase:
One side(typically client) initiates the shutdown.
No special JSON RPC message is defined.
Transport layer is responsible for signalling termination.--->(local and remote).

A> Shutdown in STDIO(local):

Client initiated shutdown(shutdown):
--> close input stream to the child process(server).
--> wait for server to exit.
--> send sigterm if server does not exit in time.
--> send sigkill if still unresponsive.

Server initiated shutdown(may):

--> Close output stream to the child process(server).
--> Exit process.

B> Shutdown in HTTP(remote):

Client  initialised shutdown(commoncase):
The client(host) closes the HTTP connection it opened to the server.

Server in initialised shutdown(maybe):
The server closes the HTTP connection it opened to the client.
The client should be prepared for a dropped connection and should handle it gracefully.---> terminate running process or reconnect if appropriate.

#Special cases:

1) Ping:
It is a lightweight req res method defined in mcp.
It is used to check the health of the connection.

When to use ping:
1. It is used to check if other side is up before full initialization.
2. If there is no exchange btw two sides for a certain period of time.Then ping can be sent in order to check if the connection is still alive and keep it alive
from the silent dropping by the OS, proxies or firewalls.

2) Error Handling:
It is how the client and server handle something went wrong with the request.
It inherit JSON RPC error handling standard error handling format.

Causes of error:
1. Unsupported or mismatched.
2. protocol version mismatch.
3. timeout.
4. internal server failure.
etc etc.

#Error object structure:

code, message, data

#Timeout:

Ensure req do not hang for too long.

SDKs let client to set timeout.
if deadline passes with no result then client triggers a timeout.
Client sends a cancellation req to server to stop.
The server should stop processing and should not respond.

#Progress Notification:
Let the client know that a long-running process is in progress.
client include a progress token in the meta data of the request.





